●DisconnectedQuit
● Chat started.

Alex H:  Alex here with Shopify! What can I help you with today?
Jonathan Coulton:  I have a question about deleting and recreating products and reporting
Alex H:  Great!
Jonathan Coulton:  If I delete and recreate a product with the same name
Jonathan Coulton:  will it get reported under that name
Jonathan Coulton:  or will each product, even though the names are the same, get a different line in the report?
Alex H:  Great question, let me double check for you!
Jonathan Coulton:  thanks
Jonathan Coulton:  appreciate it--was hard to find the information online
Alex H:  No problem, our platform is so detailed that some info can be really hard to track down!
Jonathan Coulton:  it really is
Jonathan Coulton:  (detailed, that is!)
Alex H:  Which report are you referring to? The product list?
Jonathan Coulton:  I guess I'm referring to sales reporting
Jonathan Coulton:  Like if I look back to see stats on what I've sold
Jonathan Coulton:  Will it lump identically named products together
Jonathan Coulton:  (One that now does NOT exist and one that now does?)
Jonathan Coulton:  I'd actually love it if it did that
Alex H:  No it won't, it will still recognize that they're separate products.
Jonathan Coulton:  Ah
Jonathan Coulton:  So if I were to delete and recreate a bunch of products
Jonathan Coulton:  my sales reports would have
Jonathan Coulton:  tons of identical seeming lines in them
Jonathan Coulton:  cool--just wanted to check
Jonathan Coulton:  this what my limited testing indicated
Jonathan Coulton:  the way the API is structured, creating a product with metafields is easier than updating one
Jonathan Coulton:  so deleting and recreating a product
Alex H:  Yup!
Jonathan Coulton:  takes fewer calls and is simpler
Jonathan Coulton:  but if it messes with reporting
Jonathan Coulton:  i will keep going down the road of the more complex updates
Jonathan Coulton:  i actually have one more question about reporting and variants
Jonathan Coulton:  it seems like the IDs of the variants on my products have been changing when i update them via the API
Jonathan Coulton:  but i've been including the original variant ID in my put request
Jonathan Coulton:  (apologies if this is getting too technical)
Alex H:  hahaha no problem!
Jonathan Coulton:  will the changing variant IDs affect reporting? or is variant reporting by sku?
Alex H:  Variant reporting is by SKU
Jonathan Coulton:  awesome
Jonathan Coulton:  then what i currently have is working
Alex H:  Also, if you're ever looking to get even more technical, have a look at our API forum here
Jonathan Coulton:  ah, ok
Jonathan Coulton:  i will check that out
Jonathan Coulton:  if you have a moment for one more api question
Jonathan Coulton:  i think i'll be tapped out
Alex H:  Let's see if I know it!
Alex H:  No promises ;)
Alex H:  :D
Jonathan Coulton:  when i create a product, i post a bunch of metafields
Jonathan Coulton:  and i record their ids (which i need to get via a separate request :()
Jonathan Coulton:  but when i do a put on the products endpoint
Jonathan Coulton:  with updated metafields
Jonathan Coulton:  even including the ids of the metafields
Jonathan Coulton:  it won't let me update them
Jonathan Coulton:  is there any way to do a product update, including metafields
Jonathan Coulton:  in a single API call
Jonathan Coulton:  or am i correct that i need to
Jonathan Coulton:  detect if a metafield has changed
Jonathan Coulton:  and update them one by one
Alex H:  Honestly, off the top of my head, I can't answer that 100% confidently. I do believe you if it's formatted correctly, it should be doable in a single API call. If you haven't yet take a look at our product update api reference documentation here
Jonathan Coulton:  i'll post in the forums
Jonathan Coulton:  maybe i'm formatting it wrong
Alex H:  We've also got API pro Gurus browsing the forums who might be able to answer that one!
Alex H:  There's a good chance it's a formatting issue for sure!
Jonathan Coulton:  cool, thanks for your hlep
Alex H:  No problem! :)
Alex H:  Anything else? :D
Jonathan Coulton:  that's it
Jonathan Coulton:  thank you so much alex!
Alex H:  No problem Jonathan!
Alex H:  Have a great day!
Jonathan Coulton:  Thanks, you too!
● Chat ended.